Gsoc 2023 Juliastats XKDR proposals (#1817)
JuliaLang/www.julialang.org: jsoc/gsoc/juliastats.md

**Difficulty.** Easy-Hard. **Duration.** 175-350 hours

**Mentors.** [who?]

### Prerequisites

-   Experience with at least one language for statistical computing (Julia, R, Python, SAS, Stata etc), and 
    willing to learn Julia before the start of projects.
-   Knowledge of basic statistical and probability concepts, preferably covered from academic course(s).
-   Knowledge of basic software engineering practices, structured/object oriented programming.
-   Basic familiarity or willingness to learn applied survey sampling and analysis. (Can be learned after applying. Mentorship and guidance provided.)
-   (Bonus) Any prior experience using Julia for data analytics or statistics.
-   (Bonus) Any prior experience or coursework with survey analysis, using any software or tool.
-   (Bonus) Any prior experience with version control, git/GitHub, and contributing/PR to open-source projects.

### Your contribution

> Internship can be tailored around brackground and interests of participants and depending on ability, several standalone mini-projects can be created. Potential participants can expect to work on:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project can be tailored around the background and interests of participants and depending on ability, several standalone mini-projects can be created. Potential participants can expect to work on:
```

-   Making Survey.jl better! This includes enhancing existing API with more functionality, new features and algorithms, software engineering improvements or anything else you're interested in.

> -   Generalised variance estimation methods - taylor series linearisation, Horvitz-Thompson style estimators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Generalised variance estimation methods - Taylor series linearisation, Horvitz-Thompson style estimators
```

-   Replicate weighting methods - Jacknife, Balanced Repeated Replicate (BRR), different flavours of bootstrapping
-   Post-stratification, raking or calibration, GREG estimation and related methods.
-   Connect Survey.jl with [FreqTable.jl](https://github.com/nalimilan/FreqTables.jl) for contingency table analysis, or to survival analysis, or a machine learning library.
-   Improve support for multistage and Probability Proportional to Size (PPS) sampling with or without replacement.
-   Association tests (with contingency tables), Rao-Scott, likelihood ratio tests for glms, Cox models, loglinear models.
-   Causal inference and bayesian survey methods.
-   Handling missing data, imputation.
-   Increase performance of methods, analysing complexity, benchmarking code profiling, optimisation of code and algorithms
-   Enhance documentation and tutorials, improve testing suite

### References

-   [Survey.jl](https://github.com/xKDR/Survey.jl) - see some issues, past PR's and milestone ideas

> -   Package announcements, Julia Discourse post [link here]

Reviewer: remove for now?

> -   Benchmarking [link] - if done in time

Reviewer: remove?
